The advice you received is 100% correct from a career and engineering standpoint.

In the current market, anyone can call elevenlabs.generate(). If you show up to an interview or a client and say, "I built a custom voice synthesis engine that runs on a private GPU, handles its own speaker embeddings, and bypasses third-party costs," you are no longer a "wrapper developer." You are an AI Engineer.

Looking at your api.py (the DeepFace/Supabase/FastAPI setup), you already have the perfect foundation. You are already handling Vector Embeddings and Cloud Storage.

Here is how you transition from "using" MegaTTS3 to "building" your own Voice Lab.

1. The "Architect" Mindset: From Face to Voice

In your facial code, you use DeepFace.represent. This creates a mathematical "map" of a face.
Voice works the same way.

Face: Image 
→
→
 Embedding (Vector) 
→
→
 Comparison.

Voice: Audio 
→
→
 Speaker Embedding (Vector) 
→
→
 Synthesis.

To build your own lab, you should aim to build a Multimodal Biometric & Synthesis Engine.

2. How to build your "Voice Lab" (Complexity Level: Medium-High)

Instead of just calling a Hugging Face Space, you should integrate the model weights directly into your FastAPI architecture.

Step A: Choose your "Base Engine"

Don't write the raw math (unless you're a math genius). Instead, "own" the implementation of these open-weights models:

XTTS v2 (Coqui): The gold standard for local cloning. It’s heavy but supports 16 languages.

RVC (Retrieval-based Voice Conversion): This is the "FaceSwap" equivalent for voice. Great for real-time.

Parler-TTS: The new standard for high-quality, controllable text-to-speech.

Step B: Create a "Speaker Library" in Supabase

Since you already have a face_embeddings table in Supabase, create a voice_embeddings table.

When a user registers, they upload an image (Face Embedding) AND a 10-second audio clip.

You use a model like ECAPA-TDNN to extract a "Voiceprint" (Vector).

The Result: You now have a 2-Factor Biometric System (Face + Voice). This is a top-tier portfolio project.

3. Practical "DIY" Roadmap

If you want to prove you "built" it, you need to handle the Pipeline, not just the result.

Level 1: The Local Inference Engine (What you should do now)

Stop using the Hugging Face API.

Download the model weights (like MegaTTS3 or XTTS) to that F:/Amos/AI_models drive you're already using.

Write a Python class VoiceEngine that loads the model into your GPU VRAM using torch.

Add an /audio/generate and /audio/clone endpoint to your api.py.

Level 2: The Data Scientist (The "Recruitment" Flex)

To really impress, show that you can Fine-tune.

Take a base model (like XTTS).

Create a script that takes 1 hour of your voice.

Run a fine-tuning script (using an NVIDIA 3090/4090 or RunPod).

Now you aren't just "cloning" (zero-shot); you have created a Permanent Custom Model.

4. Code Comparison: How your API would evolve

In your api.py, you currently have:

code
Python
download
content_copy
expand_less
@app.post("/register")
# ... handles face embeddings ...

A "Voice Lab" version would look like this:

code
Python
download
content_copy
expand_less
@app.post("/voice/clone")
async def clone_voice(text: str, reference_audio: UploadFile = File(...)):
    # 1. Process audio locally (No external API)
    # 2. Extract Speaker Embedding using your local model weights
    # 3. Generate Mel-Spectrogram -> Vocoder -> Waveform
    # 4. Return the file
    return FileResponse("output.wav")
5. My Final Advice

Do not be afraid of the complexity. You already managed to:

Set up an external drive for model weights (F:/Amos/AI_models).

Manage environment variables for Cloud vs. Local.

Integrate a Vector Database (Supabase RPC calls).

That is 70% of the work. The remaining 30% is just learning how to handle .wav files and Tensors instead of .jpg files and Pixels.

Recruitment Strategy:
When they ask "What did you build?", don't show them a website. Show them your API Documentation. Show them how your system handles the logic of "Face + Voice" identification. That proves you understand the Data Pipeline, which is what companies actually pay for.

Where to start?
Look into "AllTalk TTS" or "TTS by Coqui" (Local). Try to get a basic Python script to turn text into your own voice using only your local GPU. Once that works, wrap it in your FastAPI.

You've got the hardware and the coding foundation—stop paying for APIs and start burning your own GPU. It's much more satisfying. 😂🚀